"Treating COPD with Diet"
120 COPD patients were
randomized into two groups.
Half were told to boost their fruit
and vegetable consumption,
and the other half stayed
on their regular diet.
The intervention group was told to
eat at least one more serving a day
of fruits or vegetables.
And they did, and they did
for three years.
More fruit, and more vegetables,
than control.
Here’s the control group.
Slowly but surely,
they got worse.
That’s what happens in
COPD (emphysema);
you get worse, and worse,
and then you die.
The group told to eat at least one more
measly serving of fruits or vegetables
every day started out the same,
but didn’t get worse.
One year, two years, three years.
In fact, if anything, it looks like their
lung function got a little better.
That’s not supposed to happen;
you’re supposed to get worse.
Could be the antioxidant
effect of fruits and vegetables;
could be the anti-inflammatory effect;
or, frankly, it may not directly be the
fruits and vegetables at all.
When you eat more of one thing,
you tend to eat less of another.
For example, the addition of
fruits and vegetables resulted in a
decreased consumption of meat,
which is known to be a pro-oxidant.
Either way, though,
there is now hope.
These findings suggest that a dietary
shift to higher-antioxidant food intake
may be associated with
improvement in lung function.
And, in this respect, dietary
interventions might be considered in
COPD management.
The tobacco industry viewed these
landmark findings a little differently.
Instead of adding fruits and vegetables
to one’s diet to treat emphysema,
wouldn’t it be simpler to just
add them to the cigarettes?
And voilà, the addition of
açaí berries to cigarettes
evidently had a protective effect
against emphysema in smoking mice.
Next, they’re going to try
to add berries to meat.
I can always count on
the journal Meat Science.
Now, adding fruit extracts to burgers
was not without its glitches, though.
The blackberries literally dyed burger
patties with a distinct purplish color—
though infusing lamb carcasses with
kiwifruit juice before rigor mortis sets in
does evidently improve tenderness.
And, it is possible to improve
the nutritional profile of frankfurters
with powdered grape seeds—
though there were complaints that
the grape seed particles were
visible in the final product.
And if there’s one thing we know
about hot dog eaters,
it’s that they’re picky about
what goes in their food.